Oxana Bednyuk 153605
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. 
In my assignment I have Goal #3: Good health and well-being, and two of its targets: 
3.3 target, by 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases. This target’s indicators are:
Number of new HIV infections per 1,000 uninfected population, by sex, age and key populations
Tuberculosis incidence per 1,000 population
Malaria incidence per 1,000 population
Hepatitis B incidence per 100,000 population
Number of people requiring interventions against neglected tropical diseases
These indicators monitoring how many people from a 1,000 of population have communicable diseases. By looking on received number a conclusion could be made weather methods to end the epidemics of these diseases work or not.
3.4 target, by 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being. This target’s indicators are:
Mortality rate attributed to cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory disease
Suicide mortality rate
The mortality rates of non communicable diseases are indicating how healthy the population is, and in how many cases they were the cause of premature deaths. Suicide mortality rates indicating the mental health of population and its reference to premature mortality.
These targets are important not only for Aruba but worldwide. Diseases mentioned in first target (AIDS, tuberculosis, etc.) if left without monitoring and uncontrolled can spread really fast and lead to epidemics and high mortality. Aruba, specifically, in high danger of mosquito-borne tropical diseases such as Dengue, Chikungunya, Zika, due to geographical location, climate and a big ammount of visitors (including those who come from countries where these diseases outbreak). Non-communicable diseases are also important to monitor;  collected data can be used in better understanding what are the major diseases and forces can be put on reducing it.
Because there is very little waste management in Aruba, household wastes accumulating on the growing landfill of Parkietenbos. The smoking landfill can cause diseases mentioned in one of the indicators, such as cancer and respiratory diseases, especially for the citizens who live around the landfill. So the bad waste management on Aruba can be the wall on the way of SDG to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.
As much as I could find, these indicators are monitoring on Aruba by the department of public health ( http://www.despa.gov.aw/ ). Epidemiology and research unit has published report Aruba health Monitor 2013 where overall data of the health of Aruban population was accumulated. This was the first version, and it will be published every four years.
